
--- PAGE 1 ---
MOST IMMEDIATE
No.11341112024-Cab.
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA (BHARAT SARKAR)
CAB I N ET SECRETARIAT (MANTRI MAN DAL SACH IVALAYA)
RASHTRAPATI BHAWAN
New Delhi, the 1Oth June,2024
The undersigned is directed to say that the portfolios allocated to the members of the
Council of Ministers, who have been sworn in on gth June, 2024, are as shown in the attached
list.
ffi"1n1*(Anita Tripathi)
for Cabinet Secretary
Tele:2379 2204
To
All Members of the Council of Ministers.
Copy fonrarded for information to:
Secretary to the President.
Secretary to the Vice-President.
Copy also forwarded for information to:
Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister.
National Security Adviser.
Copy also forwarded for information to:
Secretary-General (Lok Sabha).
Secretary-General (Rajya Sabha).
Copy fonrvarded to all Secretaries/Special Secretaries/ Additional
Govt. of lndia/chairman & cEo, Railway Board/Accounts officer, pay
Cabinet Affairs, for information.
'fr,4<4'r
(Anita Tripathi)
Director
@,,vP(Anita Tripathi)
Director
{)*'
bt%-10\t
(Anita Tripathi)
Director
Secretaries to the
& Accounts Office,
W'+p
(Anita Tripathi)
Director
Copy forwarded to all MinistrieslOepartments of the Govt. of lndia/Lok Sabha Secretariat(Distribution Branch & Question Branch)/Rajya Sabha Secretariat (Distribution Branch &
Question Branch)/ Establishment Officer, Department of Personnel & Training/Ministry of
External Affairs (Protocol Division)/Press lnformation Bureau/Section Officer, trtcO Seciion,
Prime Minister's Office.
ffiV,a'Pr
(Anita Tripathi)
Director
--- PAGE 2 ---
LIST OF COUNCIL OF MINISTERS WITH PORTFOLIOS 
(Sworn in on 09.06.2024) 
 
Shri Narendra Modi  Prime Minister and also in-charge of: 
Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions;  
Department of Atomic Energy; 
Department of Space;  
All important policy issues; and  
All other portfolios not allocated to any Minister. 
 
CABINET MINISTERS 
 
1.  Shri Raj Nath Singh Minister of Defence. 
2.  Shri Amit Shah Minister of Home Affairs; and 
Minister of Cooperation. 
3.  Shri Nitin Jairam Gadkari Minister of Road Transport and Highways. 
4.  Shri Jagat Prakash Nadda Minister of Health and Family Welfare; and 
Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers. 
5.  Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare; and 
Minister of Rural Development. 
6.  Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman  Minister of Finance; and 
Minister of Corporate Affairs. 
7.  Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar Minister of External Affairs. 
8.  Shri Manohar Lal Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs; and 
Minister of Power. 
9.  Shri H. D. Kumaraswamy Minister of Heavy Industries; and 
Minister of Steel. 
10.  Shri Piyush Goyal Minister of Commerce and Industry. 
11.  Shri Dharmendra Pradhan Minister of Education. 
12.  Shri Jitan Ram Manjhi Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. 
13.  Shri Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias 
Lalan Singh 
Minister of Panchayati Raj; and  
Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. 
14.  Shri Sarbananda Sonowal Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways. 
15.  Dr. Virendra Kumar Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment. 
16.  Shri Kinjarapu Rammohan 
Naidu 
Minister of Civil Aviation. 
17.  Shri Pralhad Joshi Minister of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public 
Distribution; and 
Minister of New and Renewable Energy. 
18.  Shri Jual Oram Minister of Tribal Affairs. 
--- PAGE 3 ---
19.  Shri Giriraj Singh Minister of Textiles. 
20.  Shri Ashwini Vaishnaw Minister of Railways; 
Minister of Information and Broadcasting; and 
Minister of Electronics and Information Technology. 
21.  Shri Jyotiraditya M. Scindia Minister of Communications; and 
Minister of Development of North Eastern Region. 
22.  Shri Bhupender Yadav Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. 
23.  Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat Minister of Culture; and 
Minister of Tourism. 
24.  Smt. Annpurna Devi Minister of Women and Child Development 
25.  Shri Kiren Rijiju Minister of Parliamentary Affairs; and 
Minister of Minority Affairs. 
26.  Shri Hardeep Singh Puri Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas 
27.  Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya Minister of Labour and Employment; and 
Minister of Youth Affairs and Sports. 
28.  Shri G. Kishan Reddy Minister of Coal; and 
Minister of Mines. 
29.  Shri Chirag Paswan Minister of Food Processing Industries. 
30.  Shri C R Patil Minister of Jal Shakti. 
 
MINISTERS OF STATE (INDEPENDENT CHARGE) 
 
1.  Rao Inderjit Singh  Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry 
of Statistics and Programme Implementation;  
Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry 
of Planning; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Culture. 
2.  Dr. Jitendra Singh Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry 
of Science and Technology; 
Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry 
of Earth Sciences; 
Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office; 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Personnel, Public 
Grievances and Pensions;  
Minister of State in the Department of Atomic Energy; 
and  
Minister of State in the Department of Space. 
3.  Shri Arjun Ram Meghwal Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the  Ministry 
of Law and Justice; and  
Minister of State in the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs. 
4.  Shri Prataprao Jadhav Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry 
of Ayush; and 
--- PAGE 4 ---
Minister of State in the Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare. 
5.  Shri Jayant Chaudhary Minister of State (Independent Charge) of the Ministry 
of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Education. 
 
 
MINISTERS OF STATE 
 
1.  Shri Jitin Prasada Minister of State in the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Electronics and 
Information Technology. 
2.  Shri Shripad Yesso Naik Minister of State in the Ministry of Power; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of New and Renewable 
Energy. 
3.  Shri Pankaj Chaudhary Minister of State in the Ministry of Finance. 
4.  Shri Krishan Pal Minister of State in the Ministry of Cooperation. 
5.  Shri Ramdas Athawale Minister of State in the Ministry of Social Justice and 
Empowerment. 
6.  Shri Ram Nath Thakur Minister of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Farmers Welfare. 
7.  Shri Nityanand Rai Minister of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs. 
8.  Smt. Anupriya Patel Minister of State in the Ministry of Health and Family 
Welfare; and 
Minister of State in the  Ministry of Chemicals and 
Fertilizers. 
9.  Shri V. Somanna Minister of State in the Ministry of Jal Shakti; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Railways. 
10.  Dr. Chandra Sekhar 
Pemmasani 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Rural Development; 
and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Communications. 
11.  Prof. S. P. Singh Baghel Minister of State in the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal 
Husbandry and Dairying; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Panchayati Raj. 
12.  Sushri Shobha Karandlaje Minister of S tate in the Ministry of Micro, Small and 
Medium Enterprises; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment. 
13.  Shri Kirti Vardhan Singh Minister of State in the Ministry of Environment, Forest 
and Climate Change; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of External Affairs. 
--- PAGE 5 ---
14.  Shri B. L. Verma Minister of State in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, 
Food and Public Distribution; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Social Justice and 
Empowerment. 
15.  Shri Shantanu Thakur Minister of State in t he Ministry of Ports, Shipping and 
Waterways. 
16.  Shri Suresh Gopi Minister of State in the Ministry of Petroleum and 
Natural Gas; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Tourism. 
17.  Dr. L. Murugan Minister of State in the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs. 
18.  Shri Ajay Tamta Minister of State in the Ministry of Road Transport and 
Highways. 
19.  Shri Bandi Sanjay Kumar Minister of State in the Ministry of Home Affairs. 
20.  Shri Kamlesh Paswan Minister of State in the Ministry of Rural Development. 
21.  Shri Bhagirath Choudhary Minister of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Farmers Welfare. 
22.  Shri Satish Chandra Dubey Minister of State in the Ministry of Coal; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Mines. 
23.  Shri Sanjay Seth Minister of State in the Ministry of Defence. 
24.  Shri Ravneet Singh Minister of State in the Ministry of Food Processing 
Industries; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Railways. 
25.  Shri Durgadas Uikey Minister of State in the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. 
26.  Smt. Raksha Nikhil Khadse Minister of State in the Ministry of Youth Affairs and 
Sports. 
27.  Shri Sukanta Majumdar Minister of State in the Ministry of Education; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Development of North 
Eastern Region. 
28.  Smt. Savitri Thakur Minister of State in the Ministry of Women and Child 
Development. 
29.  Shri Tokhan Sahu Minister of State in the Ministry of Housing and Urban 
Affairs. 
30.  Shri Raj Bhushan Choudhary Minister of State in the Ministry of Jal Shakti. 
31.  Shri Bhupathi Raju Srinivasa 
Varma 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Heavy Industries; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Steel. 
32.  Shri Harsh Malhotra Minister of State in the Ministry of Corporate Affairs; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Road Transport and 
Highways. 
--- PAGE 6 ---
33.  Smt. Nimuben Jayantibhai 
Bambhaniya 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, 
Food and Public Distribution. 
34.  Shri Murlidhar Mohol Minister of State in the Ministry of Cooperation; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Civil Aviation. 
35.  Shri George Kurian Minister of State in the Ministry of Minority Affairs; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal 
Husbandry and Dairying. 
36.  Shri Pabitra Margherita Minister of State in the Ministry of External Affairs; and 
Minister of State in the Ministry of Textiles. 
 
Note:  
1. Incorporates change in the name of the Minister of State (Independent Charge) at S.No. 4 (as on  
02.07.2024). 
2. Incorporates change in the name of the Minister of State at S.No. 13 (as on 25.11.2025). 
 
 
--- 
 
 